---
menu: posts
title: "0x02 systemdo or systemdon't"
date: 2023-01-14T00:00:00+05:30
---
Often times in the Linux community, people will tell you things like “systemd is terrible” and that you shouldn’t use it.  
Then they will go on a triad of reasons why systemd is awful.  
Now, to any normal or knowledgeable user, some of these arguments in opposition to systemd can be considered valid.  
But to any other person, specially users new to Linux, these are horribly deceptive reasons to use something apart from systemd.  
The latter crowd is who this blog entry is for.  

Systemd calls itself a “software suite.” So, as such, it offers many tools–few of that are actually simple–which are useful within the runtime of the operating system.
None of systemd’s components are inherently bad.  
The trouble with systemd is that the entirety of the suite is performed as pid 1.  

The first process is the one that on many systems is the init system. It is the highest parent system in the hierarchy, as it is carried out by the kernel.  
Now in a few programs, this is what you may want. You may want a reliable and battle tested process running as the init, especially on servers.  
You may even need it on a computer as nicely, for ease of use.  
The biggest problem with being informed what init to use and what no longer to apply is that what works for others may not give you the results you want.  

A lot of people have asked me what init they should use. The handiest answer,   use the one that works. If systemd works in your machine, why replace it?  
On top of that, a few distributions of Linux almost hard depend on systemd. for example, [Arch Linux](https://archlinux.org/), where the complete system is constructed on the premise of using systemd. packages which are installed have appropiate unit files for systemd. replacing it, while it can be done,  
is a tidious and quite disturbing process.  

So all of this is to say: if you’re the person who is new to linux, and also you don’t know what init to use, don’t trade your init at all.  
to quote a friend of mine, *“Linux users are all about freedom of desire, right up until someone’s choice differs from theirs.”*

And on the alternative aspect of the spectrum, if you’re the redbilled based user who is preaching to the newer, pure linux customers:  
*Shut up*. let them analyze the pros or cons of the software themselves. after all, for as much as I dislike systemd myself, *it just works*.
