---
menu: posts
title: "0x04 resisting temptation..."
date: 2023-04-12T00:00:00+05:30
---
I've always believed that social media is useless.  
My main problem on most of these social media is the method of communication.  
The way that people communicate on these platforms is kind of more important than what they are talking about.  
Most of these platforms are exclusively for short-form content.
It makes it nearly impossible to publish anything meaningful on them.
They also have an extreme recency bias, so you're only really going to see the most recent posts that people make.  
For an example, if you make a tweet and it's more than a week old, it is not going to be seen by anybody ever again. Because of this, you're not really incentivized to put together thoughtful, meaningful ideas.  


*Learn to enjoy boredom. Separate yourself physically and digitally from temptation.*

I can't stand it when people pretend to be a victim of their own behavior, although they aren't the ones in control.  
The reason that people scroll through social media all the time is not actually because they really find them entertaining.
I think that what originally draws them to it is the fact it's just there.  

Now, *why is it important to learn to be bored* ?  

Because all of these things that you are addicted to are hyper-stimulating to your brain.
You only need them because your standard for what entertains you is extremely high.  
People don't have the attention span anymore to just go out in the middle of nowhere and enjoy life.  


A run with a good audiobook takes me down from the insanity of the internet, and reminds me how beautiful this life is.  
